# Assignment 1: Switchyard & Mininet

## Due Oct 2, 2020, 11:59PM (GMT+8)

## Overview

In this chapter we will introduce all preparations for our network experiments. Then your are going to modify the examples we provide according to our requirements.

## Your Tasks

> **[NOTE]**
> The sentences marked with ✅ are related to the content of your report. Please pay attention.

### Task 1: An Example

Meet the requirements for using Mininet, Wireshark and Switchyard. At the meantime you will learn how to complete this assignment.

[Start your task here](workflow.md)

### Task 2: Your Modification

After Task 1, you are ready to do some exercises on our platform.

[Start your task here](modification.md)

## Handing it in

### Report

We will provide a template of your lab assignment report [here](https://github.com/NJUCS-Networklabs-20fall/NetworkReport). You need to submit the report in your repository named `<学号><姓名>_lab_1`. The format of your report can be Microsoft Doc or PDF. An example is `123456789拾佰仟_lab_1.pdf`.

### Capture file

The capture file's name should be `lab_1.pcapng` or `lab_1.pcap`. If you capture packets using *superuser*, you may meet some problems. Read the tips below.

> **[WARNING]**
> You may (or as I expect you must) meet the error when you try to modify/delete the files generated by Wireshark or Switchyard programs running on hosts in Mininet. It is because the owner of these files is superuser `root`. You need to change the owner to your login user. Run the command below on your capture file. Replace `<file>` to the file path of your capture file.
>
> ```
> $ sudo chown $USER:$USER <file>
> ```
> Another useful command `ls -l` can check if the owner of the file is `root`. You can see the file belonging to `root` is `test.log` in the example.
> ```
> (syenv) cyq@cyq-VirtualBox:~/switchyard$ ls -l
> total 88
> -rw-rw-r-- 1 cyq  cyq  35147 2月  20 17:33 COPYING
> -rw-rw-r-- 1 cyq  cyq    427 2月  20 17:33 Dockerfile
> drwxrwxr-x 6 cyq  cyq   4096 2月  20 17:33 docs
> drwxrwxr-x 3 cyq  cyq   4096 2月  20 17:33 documentation
> drwxrwxr-x 4 cyq  cyq   4096 2月  21 00:01 examples
> -rw-rw-r-- 1 cyq  cyq   5119 2月  20 17:33 README.rst
> -rw-rw-r-- 1 cyq  cyq    144 2月  20 17:33 requirements.txt
> -rwxrwxr-x 1 cyq  cyq    405 2月  20 17:33 runtests.sh
> -rw-rw-r-- 1 cyq  cyq   2266 2月  20 17:33 setup.py
> drwxrwxr-x 4 cyq  cyq   4096 2月  20 17:33 switchyard
> drwxrwxr-x 6 cyq  cyq   4096 2月  20 17:37 syenv
> -rw-r--r-- 1 root root   181 2月  21 21:42 lab_1.pcap
> drwxrwxr-x 2 cyq  cyq   4096 2月  20 17:33 tests
> ```
> In this case, running the command `sudo chown $USER:$USER ./lab_1.pcap` can change the owner to my user `cyq`.
> As we mentioned before, be careful when using `sudo` since it may have potential risks.

### Submit to GitHub Classroom

When you are ready to submit, do the following.

1. Modify your code according to Task 2, complete your report and save your capture file.

2. When you have done your work, put your report, code and capture file in your own repository folder and commit them. If you forget how to push, please check the Assignment 0 or google. Finally your project will look like

   ```
   Your repo/
     ├─.../
   m ├─lab_1/
   + │ ├─123456789拾佰仟_lab_1.pdf
   m │ ├─hubtests.py
   + │ ├─lab_1.pcapng
   m │ ├─myhub.py
   m │ └─start_mininet.py
     └─...
   ```

   > **[WARNING]**
   > The file names in your submission have to **exactly** match the file names above. Otherwise, you will lose points!

3. Submit your work by pushing your local repository to your remote repository by running the command `git push origin master`.

   > **[WARNING]**
   >
   > **Only** commit your **source code** to your local repository. If there are some generated files that are not source code, ignore them by adding them in the file `.gitignore`.
